Lumigator Docs (#341)
mozilla-ai/lumigator: docs/source/get-started/quickstart.md

# Quickstart

Now that you have a local deployment of Lumigator, you can start using it. In this quickstart guide,
we will show you how to upload a dataset and create a simple evaluation job. Finally, we'll show you
how to retrieve the results of the evaluation job.

## Upload a Dataset

The Lumigator backend provides an API endpoint for uploading datasets and running evaluation jobs.
To view the available endpoints, navigate to the API documentation page at
[`http://localhost:8000/docs`](http://localhost:8000/docs).

> There are a few ways to interact with the API; you can always test the endpoints via the OpenAPI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few ways to interact with the API; 
1. Test the endpoints via the OpenAPI documentation page at `yourlumigatorhost/docs`
2. cURL commands
3. The Lumigator Python SDK. 

We'll focus on the last two. 
```

documentation page, but here we will show you how to send requests using cURL and the Lumigator
Python SDK.

To upload a dataset, you need to send a POST request to the `/datasets` endpoint. The request should
include the dataset file. Here is an example:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} cURL
:sync: tab1
```console
user@host:~/lumigator$ curl -s http://localhost:8000/api/v1/datasets/ \
  -H 'Accept: application/json' \
  -H 'Content-Type: multipart/form-data' \
  -F 'dataset=@'"path/to/dataset.csv"';type=text/csv' \
  -F 'format=experiment' | jq
{
  "id": "dd15bbaa-8d6f-44ae-a995-b3b78f4ea6fb",
  "filename": "dataset.csv",
  "format": "experiment",
  "size": 180528,
  "ground_truth": true,
  "created_at": "2024-10-30T12:10:18"
}
```
:::

:::{tab-item} Python SDK
:sync: tab2
```python
from lumigator_sdk.lumigator import LumigatorClient
from schemas.datasets import DatasetFormat

dataset_path = 'path/to/dataset.csv'
lm_client = LumigatorClient('localhost:8000')

response = lm_client.datasets.create_dataset(
    open(dataset_path, 'rb'),
    DatasetFormat.JOB
)
```
:::

::::

```{note}

> The dataset file should be in CSV format and contain a header row with the following columns:

Reviewer: this doesn't need to have `ground_truth`, it's an optional field, we could note that and point people to the example dataset (https://github.com/mozilla-ai/lumigator/blob/0bef1965c5180f39832e2932b59ef797b0853ff4/lumigator/python/mzai/sample_data/dialogsum_exc.csv#L4)
